# Machine-Learning-based-Solar-Maximum-Power-Point-Tracking-and-Forecasting
The project involves the design of Solar MPPT charge controller using DC/DC buck converter and Arduino Uno microcontroller.  
The MPPT controller improves the efficiency of the PV panel by extracting respective maximum power as per the atmospheric conditions. 
MPPT charge controller will be designed with a 40W PV panel and Perturb & Observe algorithm technique. 
A Machine Learning based system is developed in order to predict the MPPT power output based on the temperature and irradiance.
The main objective of the project is to design solar maximum power point tracking device and its associated forecasting system.  When the solar energy is converted to electrical energy the basic parameter that comes into picture is the operating voltage of load and considering the P-V graph of the panel we cannot always achieve the maximum power by directly loading the solar panel thus we need an intermediate device known as MPPT.  
The forecasting system is built on the sensor data to predict the MPPT power output based on temperature and irradiance. The main objective of the project is to design solar maximum power point tracking device and its associated forecasting system.  When the solar energy is converted to electrical energy the basic parameter that comes into picture is the operating voltage of load and considering the P-V graph of the panel we cannot always achieve the maximum power by directly loading the solar panel thus we need an intermediate device known as MPPT.
